Estimation:

I believe that making all of the changes necessary should take all of 10 minutes. All I should have to do is to create a new command, add a stamp list of turtles to the backend controller, and add that stamp list to the things that get viewed by the frontend. This should be 3-4 additions to classes. To make both commands work I will need to create two command classes and make a modification to the backendcontroller class.

Review:

It took me about 10 minutes to add this new feature. I needed to update 4 files, 3 of which were exactly the same/for the same reasons as I had predicted. I did not predict having to make a change to the Turtle class, but I found that a copy constructor for the turtle would be very helpful for this, so I made one (taking my total to 4). I got it conceptually completely right on the first try; my only mistake was forgetting to mark the constructors as public initially, causing it to not show up when trying to perform reflection. However this was a small error not related to design, and the actual addition of a command was quite easy.

Analysis:

Looking back, the ease of adding a completely new command a month and a half later shows me that this design was very good. Adding a new command is extremely easy, and barely requires any knowledge of the code base to do effectively. One thing that could be improved is the lack of modules in our code; specifically the fact that this project did not use modules and instead just used directories. By using modules and an interface for the frontend to use, we could better have separated the frontend and backend. Also, the controller classes for the frontend and backend are large and contain methods that the other side would be able to (wrongly) access, making it possible to cause issues with the code. In this project this was not an issue, but having done Vooga with a larger group I now see how big of an issue this could be. If I was not familiar with the code at all, it would certainly be harder to actually implement the command (e.g. creating a stamp), as I would not know the best/easiest way to do this with regards to our code base. However, the actual creation of a command was as simple as creating a command class (which was automatically recognized and reflected upon for parsing), which would have been easy regardless. There are many examples of other commands that I could look at as well, so it would still be easy to make this extension.  